So how are graphs represented?
Usually, there's two ways
you represent a graph.
There are third ways,
you could actually build a full graph
node structure in which has
references to other graph nodes.
And it'd be some sort of tuple of say,
weight and other node, right?
You could have a list of
children in this kind of sense.
But often, it's not made that way.
Often, graphs look a little bit different.
So the two major ways in which I've seen
graphs be implemented, which was true when
I went to college, not all these things
that are true when I went to college,
things have changed since I went to
college, especially when it comes to maps.
But when it comes to graphs,
there's usually two ways.
So there is the adjacency list and
then there's the adjacency matrix.
And they both kind of have their uses,
but in general,
what you're going to see
is predominantly this.
You will rarely see this, and the reason
why is that it takes a lot of memory and
setup to be able to do.
If you were to set it up,
it takes OV squared.
In other words, running time of OV,
yeah, vertex squared.
So let's first do an adjacency list.
So often, when you're representing
a graph here, I'm gonna draw this out,
let's just draw one out.
We'll go like this.
I'll just call this one 0, 1, 2, 3.
So let's draw this as I directed to.
So 0 is gonna point to 3 and
1, 3 will point to 1, and
3 will point to 2, 2 will point to 0.
There we go, we kinda have this
little graph going on here.
So an adjacency list will be a list
in which the indice maps to this.
So 0 represents node zero.
So node zero will have a list of edges.
So you could imagine something that
looks a little something like this,
to: 1, and then we could put
a weight that's associated with it.
So if this thing was 10, we could put 10.
There we go, there would actually
be another one, obviously, right?
We'd also have to specify three, right?
So we could have 3 and
then some sort of value.
You see what we're doing there.
You can do a tuple.
It doesn't have to be an object here,
but you need some way to describe
where it's going plus the weight that
is associated with that connection.
So it's a list of edges in this,
in other words, an adjacency list.
What am I adjacent to?
Adjacency meaning you
have a connection to.
And so then position one
would have the same thing.
It would also have a list
in which is an empty list.
I didn't even realize it,
1 is a terminal right there.
And then 2 would have
a single item pointing to 0.
So 2 would be 0 with
a weight of something.
And then 3 would have its own, which would
actually have two items in there, right?
Does that make sense?
Yeah, I think that that's usually
a pretty good way to kinda look at it.
This seems to be a pretty
popular way to represent it.
The other way is an adjacency matrix.
In other words, what we're going
to have is we're gonna have rows,
each representing a node.
So this is node 0, 1, 2, 3.
And this, of course, is 0, 1, 2, 3.
So that means,
does 0 have a connection to 0?
No.
Does 0 have a connection to 1?
Yes, and its weight is 10.
Does 0 have a connection to 2?
No.
Does 0 have a connection to 3?
Yes, it's weight is 5.
There we go.
So, we write it out that way, which means
we can also have asymmetric relationships.
Let's look at one,
because 0 has a connection to 1,
but 1 does not have a connection to 1 or
any other node.
So you can kind of see
how this is working.
We're saying how the connections are made.
And so there you go.
This is usually a way that I've seen
these things done, and the problem,
of course, again, is memory and
how you have to represent it.
If you had 100 nodes,
you'd have to create 100 by 100 matrix
to be able to represent it all.
If you had 1000 nodes, it grows.
If it's sparsely connected you're gonna
use a ton of memory to represent a few
points of connection.
And as you can imagine, you could just
never use one of these for say maps.
You'd only just have just a little bit
of a city in there, and you'd have so
many connections that this thing
would immediately explode.
So it's unlikely that
this is used in maps.
And unless of Google has done something
very magical that we do not know about.
Do we have any questions on
the representation of a graph?
All right, cool.
All right, so basic searches
are still available, correct?
Well, they should be, right?
Because if all trees are graphs, and
we can breadth first search a tree,
why can't we do with a graph?
Of course, we can, right?
Of course, we can.
So we do the exact same thing.
Let's say we start at 0, and
let's do a depth first search.
We are going to push in 1.
So right now, we have 0 on the stack,
and we're gonna push in 1 on the stack.
1 is gonna have no connection.
So we'll pop 1 off the stack.
We're gonna push in 3 on the stack,
3 has two connections.
One we've already seen, so
we're not gonna go to that one.
And 2, 2 has one connection,
which is 0, which we've already seen.
We'll pop that one off the stack three has
no more children, we'll pop that one off
the stack zero has no more children,
we'll pop that one off the stack.
There we go.
Exact same thing,
except we don't pop and push on a stack.
We call a function we use recursion,
right?
Absolutely, all right,
same thing with breadth first search,
we just simply have a queue, right?
So we start off with 0 in the queue,
and then from 0,
we need to push on some items.
We're gonna push on 1,
and we're gonna push on 3.
From 1, so 0 gets popped off, then 1 gets
popped off, and what we have left is 3,
because 1 has no connections.
We then pop off 3, 3 pushes on
2 because we've already seen 1.
So therefore, we now do that,
we push off 2, 2 tries to look at 0,
0 has already been seen.
We do not need to put it on there,
therefore, we're done.
So breadth first search, depth first
search work identical as they do with
graphs, because again, trees are graphs,
makes it pretty simple.
If you know how to do one,
you can really do the other.
And just for fun, let's do one.
We'll do a breadth first search
on an adjacency matrix, and
we'll do a depth search
on an adjacency list.
You guys excited?
Awesome, let's leave this thing.
And let's go into here and
let's do a, look at that,
a BFS on a weighted adjacency matrix.
Of course, I created this type just so
I don't have to type it out.
It's just a 2D number grid, right?
Pretty easy, I think we could
have seen that one coming.
Just to make this a little bit easier,
if we're gonna do a breadth first search,
what do we need to do?
Well, we need a source.
We need to know where we're starting from.
We need to know what we're looking for.
And we want to be able to
return the path that we took.
Now, this is kind of interesting,
all right?
So if we were to do this,
we're gonna really apply this whole
breadth first search thing to graph.
We're gonna need to come up with a path.
Now, this is kind a tricky problem,
cuz it's like, okay, how do we do this?
Well, let's go back to this thing for
a quick second.
So it doesn't really matter
how we represent our graph,
whether it's an adjacency list or
a matrix.
Breadth first search
still involves a queue.
But it needs to involve one other
thing to be able to understand a path.
Normally in a tree operation,
we don't consider path.
It's usually irrelevant cuz we're just
going down until we find the value.
But in a graph, when we're doing a search,
we often want the path or
something associated with it, right?
Yeah, that's right.
Okay, cool.
Thank you, everybody in the audience.
So, how are we gonna represent that?
Well, depth first search
is obviously much easier.
Again, we have a pre-condition,
we have a post-condition,
which means we can push and
it means we can pop, right?
So we can just build our path as we
recuse, which makes it super simple.
But a breadth first search,
we don't have recursion,
we don't have something that maintains
the shape or the structure of our search.
Therefore, we need to
maintain it ourselves.
And so the best way I've seen this done
is you create something called a previous
array, which is usually filled
with something like negative ones.
Since no node has a -1,
we don't have to worry about that.
And so then what we have here is the
previous array is with whom I came from,
right?
And so we also mean we need this couplet
with like a scene array, something in
which or a visited array, which means
I've already visited this node.
So this would be a series
of falses to begin with.
Does that make sense?
That means, let's say we visit node zero.
All right, we visit node zero,
it doesn't have any parents.
This is where we started.
So we don't have to worry about putting
a parent or anything in there, right?
That makes sense.
It just starts off with a -1.
There is no parents.
That's where we started.
But we can set seen the truth.
So let's actually work this thing out.
I'm gonna create a new graph or
a new window right here, and
let's redraw something very,
very similar to what we just had.
And for fun,
I'm gonna add in a fifth item right over
here just to make this little bit better.
So like this 0, 1, 2, 3,
4, 0 can go to 2 with a weight of 4.
It can go to 3 with a weight of 2.
We can go here with a weight of 5.
And of course, we can go here with 1,1,
and then we can go here.
Let's not do that one cuz I
don't wanna ruin the searching.
I'll just be so quick if I do it that way.
And a weight of 5, right?
There we go.
This looks great.
So we can actually make it through this.
So of course, we start off with our
seen array as a bunch of falses.
And we see our previous array
as a bunch of negative ones.
No one has a parent yet,
they haven't been visited yet.
And of course,
we start off with our queue,
which has our source node in,
I'll use 0 as my source node.
We're all good?
Awesome.
All right, so let's try to do this,
we're gonna do a breadth first search.
So breadth first search, of course,
we pop off the current node, and
we'll also set the first one to true.
I just realized we should probably set
that one to true, and the rest will be
falses cuz we do put it into our
array before we start our cursing.
So we kinda need to say hey
the source one, that one's true.
We've already seen that one,
and it has no parent.
So we're gonna do the lord's loop again,
a nice do while.
And we'll keep doing that
until our queue is empty.
So I'm just gonna go way down here
to where I can't screw this up.
I say I can't screw it up but
there's always a chance, queued up.
While we have length inside of our queue.
We're gonna assume the JavaScript
array behaves like a queue.
We're not going to just consider its
n like properties for shifting off.
All right, awesome.
So the first thing we're gonna
do is we're gonna go like this,
current equals Q.deque,
grab the first thing out of our queue.
All right, from here,
we need to get all of its children and
add them all to our Q, correct?
Well, technically we're searching for
something.
So we're definitely going to want to
do our effectively our break case,
which is going to be, if current value or
if current equals what we're
searching for, say our needle,
then we're gonna want to break.
If not, we need to do something?
So, for each child in our current, right?
So pretending either this is adjacency
array or an adjacency matrix.
So in a matrix, you'd have to go through,
and every time you hit a zero, you'd
continue, every time you hit a non-zero,
you'd say, hey, this is a connection.
Let's look at it.
If we've seen this, if seen, we continue.
If we're not seen,
we had to do a couple things.
We're gonna go seen[C] = true.
Then we also need to say previous,
c was added by current.
Do you see how that works?
So now we know who brought
us into this search.
By doing that, that will give us our
path backwards through our search.
All right, at this point,
we now push into our Q, right?
Q push, it's not push, it should be
in Q but that's such a long word,
it has so many use and ease in it I
don't know how to spell that word.
We're gonna push in C.
There we go, that's pretty much it,
that's how we're gonna do it at the very,
very end.
Of course, we're gonna have to walk
backwards in our previous array, right?
We'll have our previous,
if we start from our needle,
if we never got to our needle,
it should equal -1.
If we did get to our needle,
we would know who added it,
then we could go to our previous array for
who added it, and we'd know who add that.
We went to a previous array for
that, we know who add buzz, and
who had buzz would be buzz and
who had a buzz would be foo, right?
We'd be able to walk through all
the arrays until we got back.
So let's see this in more practical terms.